Particular Universes Playtest Session A

1. Are the provided rules and explanation sufficient? What’s missing?
While the rules are fundamentally solid, adding examples or scenarios could help to clarify complex situations

2. Are there sufficient cards in the deck? Or too many?
The deck has an adequate number of cards for gameplay. 
Maybe I would avoid some repetitions-we found the ´hole´ card three times-and instead of some repetitions.
I would make some additions to diversify the deck.

3. Should there be more cards of any particular kind in the deck (e.g., occurrent, object, generically dependent continuant cards)?
Maybe adding types of cards such as "parent," "teacher," "neighbor".

4. What other text or picture cards could extend the existing themes (cat, dog, box, space)?
Expanding the deck with other cards could significantly enrich the game, like including roles related to professions (e.g., "doctor," "engineer") or abstract roles (e.g., "leader," "follower"). 

5. Do players win too quickly, or does it take too long to win?
We allowed players to play as many cards as possible in one turn until counter arguments arose. 
With this strategy it took around 3.4 hours to complete a game, also because there was a lot of discussion.

6. If there were spectators, did they engage or join?
There were no spectators, so no outside engagement occurred.

7. What additional cards could be added to enhance the “quality” theme?
Some cards that are difficult to classify as like “the forest” or “the internet” can provide a challange for the players.

Particular Universes Playtest Session 2 (Not played)
Add the B cards to the deck, shuffle, and play a couple of rounds.

1. Are there too many cards now, or does it work?
(Not applicable as we did not play)
2. Does it take longer to win? Too long?
(Not applicable as we did not play)
3. What additional cards could augment the B deck (e.g., function, immaterial entities, temporal region)?
(Not applicable as we did not play)
4. What additional themes could be added relative to the B cards?
(Not applicable as we did not play)

Particular Universes Playtest Session 3 (Not played)
In each round, deal 6 cards and 1 blank card to each player.

1. Do your custom cards make sense during gameplay?
(Not applicable as we did not play)
2. Did others play your custom cards as intended in later rounds?
(Not applicable as we did not play)
3. Should writing cards be part of the final game?
(Not applicable as we did not play)
4. What new picture cards could support the custom cards?
(Not applicable as we did not play)


Overall Feedback for Particular Universes Playtest

1. Is the game fun?
Yes, it’s very engaging and adds a new layer of intensity to typical ontology discussions.

2. What did you like most?
The game fostered meaningful debate and turned ontology into a fun and shared experience.

3. Anything you didn’t like?
Allowing the players to use all cards in one turn might favor experienced players and unbalance the game.

4. What new rules might improve the game?
Some rules about the number of cards to play. Playing just one card and having to draw one card is probably too little. 
Maybe do some clarification on the connections needed to be made in order to play a card. 
For example, you can´t put any material entities on the table if there is not already the ´independent continuant´ class.

5. Any new wildcard ideas?
Perhaps a card that forces you to draw extra cards from the deck.

6. Aesthetic improvements?
The design of the cards is very simple, I really liked the material entity cards with cats, dogs etc. 
I would maybe try to think of a more appealing design for the special cards in the deck.

7. Suggestions for understandability?
Clearer, short rules on card placement and how many cards can be played per turn would help players, along with a voting mechanism for card placements.

8. How much prior BFO knowledge is necessary?
A basic introduction would be helpful, but the game works as a learning tool. 
However, all the players already had some knowledge of BFO.

9. Could beginners play this game?
Yes, but they might need occasional guidance on BFO concepts and structure. 
Maybe a short explanation at the beginning of the session would be helpful.

10. Gameplay vs. lecture or reading?
The game facilitates hands-on learning and gamifies complex concepts, making it more memorable and collaborative than traditional methods.

11. Additional feedback:
A bit more guidance would help, but overall the game was enjoyable and educational.
